Guys so we got to start getting a little creative with our functionalities because if we go back here
we don't want to buy NCEA.
We want this to be dynamically generated painting of if dispose was liked.
OK.
So we're going to create a couple of helper functions that are going to help us do that.
You guys ready.
OK let's do it.
So the first function that I want to create is maybe the logged in user ID that would be very useful
to have because of want the tech they use or that's actually logged in OK and maybe a function also
called something like the function that the text they use or like the Poles.
So what I want to do is I want to go to functions if I remember where I put that thing.
The admin I put in an admin.
OK.
Whew.
OK what I'm going to do is I'm going to put it all the way up here and it's nice to know that we have
some some function that I created there.
Ok just making sure.
OK.
You know it's very useful to actually organize these files to make sure that you you know clean the
spaces and make this a little better if it's like this just checking to see what functions I have.
I have to remember you know not to write something that I already have logged in user.
If you already have a function that will help you with this.
Don't bother too much.
So right here on top I'm going to start creating these functions.
And maybe after they're logged in here it makes a lot of sense.
OK so let's create this.
And let's see how we are going to attack this so I'm going to call this logged in user id just like
to OK.
So how can we detect the user.
Well we have a session right.
So you can see right here.
So I can just copy this and I can tell if this is set right there we are.
Well first of all we need to make sure that it is set before we even play around with anything.
OK.
So what we could do is instead of using this whole thing here make sure that you know that let's just
use a function like this.
If it's locked then.
OK.
Because this function is checking if he says so mousehole just use a function and you will find out
later if it works right for us.
If he doesn't then you know we do something else.
One function that I really want to create guys is want to make the Kohary that I don't see here
to make that query instead of making a query and put it in the connection all the time and include in
doing this global thing here which is should have just a function to to help us with that.
And I told I did have one maybe I didn't have in another course Mexi Querrey and I don't have that.
Let me check confirm Querrey we have that we don't have that.
So let's let's actually create one here before we go any further because I really don't want the hassle
of writing a whole bunch of things just to make a connection to our database.
So let's use Querrey and disfunctions is going to return.
It's going to have the global
connection
OK and all we got to do here is return the my ask you Ally Querrey with the connection and is going
to have some type of query.
So make sure that you give it a query there OK.
That's all this this is doing here.
Here helps us make sure that this is tight OK.
You can put your comments there.
Two guys.
All right.
So let me just put this I like to put my Like core functions on top by the really important ones.
OK.
So look the user ID.
How are we going to do this.
Well the first thing we need to make a Querrey right.
So I'm just going to save this in every so variable and I'm going to use my function that I use created
which is going to be make things a lot easier.
Right.
And now the query is going to be select
all or we can just select a user name we want to from users so we're going to select the users.
Where I can with the tactics the user name is equal to something
and we have another function a text a user
user name but that's OK.
We need it in you right here.
So we can concatenate it right here and we need a single called there because it's going to be a string.
Let's end it with another single call here like the OK and now here which is say session and the session
is going to be user name because remember that every time I use it it gets logged in.
We do that.
OK.
So in the next lecture we'll finish this off.
But what I want to do what I want you guys to do is I want you to remember how we do a query right.
Fetch you know fetch an array get the result.
Make sure that it resoled the number of rows is bigger than one or equal then one and returned a user
id do that and I'll see you in the next lecture because that's what we're going to do in the next one.